Sun in Gemini and 3rd House: This person's spirit, ego, image of self, and
  sense of aliveness is inquisitive, witty, perceptive, adaptable, and seeks
  out information. Most often this manifests in the area of life dealing with
  communicating to and receiving from the environment.
Moon in Aquarius and 11th House: This person's emotional nature, moods,
  feelings, and caring tendencies is progressive, erratic, revolutionary,
  idealistic, humanitarian, inventive, and desires individuality. Most often
  this manifests in the area of life dealing with the future, life goals, and
  association with friends and groups.
Mercury in Taurus and 2nd House: This person's thoughts, intellect, and
  communicative activity is practical, often skeptical and stubborn, and loves
  serenity and inner peace. Most often this manifests in the area of life
  dealing with self image, self worth, and material security.
Venus in Leo and 4th House: This person's creativity, tendencies for affection
  and calmness, and relationship needs is very proud, gregarious, dramatic,
  dignified, and desires self expression. Most often this manifests in the area
  of life dealing with imagination, fantasies, inner feelings, and domestic
  life.
Mars in Leo and 5th House: This person's will, energy, activity, and
  aggressive, assertive tendencies is proud, gregarious, dramatic, dignified,
  and desires self expression. Most often this manifests in the area of life
  dealing with finding joy, pleasure, and creative expression.
Jupiter in Taurus and 2nd House: This person's enthusiastic, faithful, wise,
  expansive, spontaneous nature is very practical, often skeptical and
  stubborn, and loves serenity and inner peace. Most often this manifests in
  the area of life dealing with self image, self worth, and material security.
Saturn in Pisces and 12th House: This person's part of mind that is
  disciplined, respectful, and solitary is very imaginative, other worldly,
  impressionable, and seeks transcendence of self. Most often this manifests in
  the area of life dealing with things that disrupt or cause disassociation
  with the personality.
Uranus in Taurus and 2nd House: This person's individuality, desires for
  change, and tendency to go against social norms is practical, often skeptical
  and stubborn, and loves serenity and inner peace. Most often this manifests
  in the area of life dealing with self image, self worth, and material
  security. It is difficult for them to express this part of themselves.
Neptune in Pisces and 1st House: This person's intuitive, spiritual,
  compassionate, psychic nature is imaginative, other worldly, impressionable,
  and seeks transcendence of self. Most often this manifests in the area of
  life dealing with establishment of personal identity. This is a major part of
  their psyche!
Retrograde Pluto in Aquarius and 10th House: This person's destiny, and
  capacity to transform the self and the outer world is very progressive,
  erratic, revolutionary, idealistic, humanitarian, inventive, and desires
  individuality. Most often this manifests in an independent, backward,
  introverted manner, and in the area of life dealing with career, social
  stature, and destiny. It is easy for them to express this part of themselves.
Retrograde North Node in Taurus and 2nd House: This person's karmic goals, and
  best direction of evolutionary growth is very practical, often skeptical and
  stubborn, and loves serenity and inner peace. Most often this manifests in
  the area of life dealing with self image, self worth, and material security.
Retrograde Ascendant in Pisces and 1st House: This person's personality and
  outward appearance, as projected to the world is imaginative, other worldly,
  impressionable, and seeks transcendence of self. Most often this manifests in
  an independent, backward, introverted manner, and in the area of life dealing
  with establishment of personal identity.
Midheaven in Capricorn and 10th House: This person's view as seen in the eyes
  of others, reputation, and social standing is industrious, practical,
  disciplined, and works for solitude and personal integrity. Most often this
  manifests in the area of life dealing with career, social stature, and
  destiny. This is a major part of their psyche!