Signs of the zodiac represent psychological characteristics.

Aries is forceful, energetic, direct, courageous, and seeks adventure and
  challenge.
Taurus is practical, often skeptical and stubborn, and loves serenity and inner
  peace.
Gemini is inquisitive, witty, perceptive, adaptable, and seeks out information.
Cancer is introspective, emotional, protective, and wants inner and outer
  security.
Leo is proud, gregarious, dramatic, dignified, and desires self expression.
Virgo is analytical, critical, modest, helpful, and works toward perfection.
Libra is affectionate, tolerant, often indecisive, appreciates beauty, and
  seeks balance, relationship, and calmness.
Scorpio is penetrating, suspicious, introspective, and desires to transform and
  remove outer masks.
Sagittarius is jovial, open minded, loves freedom, and seeks meaning and new
  experience.
Capricorn is industrious, practical, disciplined, and works for solitude and
  personal integrity.
Aquarius is progressive, erratic, revolutionary, idealistic, humanitarian,
  inventive, and desires individuality.
Pisces is imaginative, other worldly, impressionable, and seeks transcendence
  of self.

Houses represent different areas within one's life.

The 1st House is the area of life dealing with establishment of personal
  identity.
The 2nd House is the area of life dealing with self image, self worth, and
  material security.
The 3rd House is the area of life dealing with communicating to and receiving
  from the environment.
The 4th House is the area of life dealing with imagination, fantasies, inner
  feelings, and domestic life.
The 5th House is the area of life dealing with finding joy, pleasure, and
  creative expression.
The 6th House is the area of life dealing with work and feeling talented and
  useful.
The 7th House is the area of life dealing with personal relationships and
  intimacy.
The 8th House is the area of life dealing with sex, death, the occult, and
  other hard to grasp topics.
The 9th House is the area of life dealing with changes, exploration, and the
  breaking of routine.
The 10th House is the area of life dealing with career, social stature, and
  destiny.
The 11th House is the area of life dealing with the future, life goals, and
  association with friends and groups.
The 12th House is the area of life dealing with things that disrupt or cause
  disassociation with the personality.

Planets represent various parts of one's mind or self.

The Sun represents one's spirit, ego, image of self, and sense of aliveness.
The Moon represents one's emotional nature, moods, feelings, and caring
  tendencies.
Mercury represents one's thoughts, intellect, and communicative activity.
Venus represents one's creativity, tendencies for affection and calmness, and
  relationship needs.
Mars represents one's will, energy, activity, and aggressive, assertive
  tendencies.
Jupiter represents one's enthusiastic, faithful, wise, expansive, spontaneous
  nature.
Saturn represents one's part of mind that is disciplined, respectful, and
  solitary.
Uranus represents one's individuality, desires for change, and tendency to go
  against social norms.
Neptune represents one's intuitive, spiritual, compassionate, psychic nature.
Pluto represents one's destiny, and capacity to transform the self and the
  outer world.
The North Node represents one's karmic goals, and best direction of
  evolutionary growth.

Aspects are different relationships between planets.

When planets are Conjunct, one is connected and fused together with another.
  Both parts are prominent in their psyche.
When planets are Opposite, one opposes and creates tension with another.
  Balance is needed.
When planets are Square, one is in conflict with another. Adaptation is
  required by both sides.
When planets are Trine, one is in harmony with another.
When planets are Sextile, one has opportunity for growth, exchange, and harmony
  in relation with another.
